---
date: "2020-04-21"
title: "Spring Newsletter"
category: "News"
tags: ['Chicken', 'Pork', 'Eggs', 'Animals']
banner: "/assets/bg/chickens.jpg"
---

Dear Friends and Family,

You are receiving this letter because you either have purchased pork or eggs from us in the past or you have inquired about what we are doing on our little homestead.  Soon after we moved into the house that I knew as a kid as Grandpa and Grandma’s house I started to get the urge to have some farm animals.  My childhood memories of cows in the barn, picking rock, and baling hay came flooding back to me.  Our first summer out here we focussed on cleaning up the yard and tried our hand at some gardening.  We planted a couple of rows of a variety of seeds and laid out cardboard and straw between the rows. Our garden that summer was less than spectacular to say the least.  That summer did teach us one thing.  If you put straw and cardboard, both sources of carbon, on the ground the soil in that area gets better.


That summer in combination with my search for health and fitness led me to the desire to see if we could grow or raise a significant portion of our own food.  That led us into last summer.  We ordered some chicks from the feed store and bought some laying hens and a rooster from a couple of local farmers.  We found that we really enjoyed having chickens around.  They do a great job of composting our food scraps and turning those food scraps into eggs!  We butchered nine of the cockerels (boy chickens) that we got from the hatchery.  And although the heritage birds that we raise don’t get as big as the chickens that you buy from the store, we sure enjoyed the taste of roasted chicken throughout the winter.  We enjoyed the chickens so much that we decided to add some pigs to the mix.  I have always enjoyed ham and eggs.  We quickly put the pigs to work rooting up some rough areas behind the barn and in what I refer to is the cow yard from my days as a kid.  We used two strands of electric fence and a rotation of fresh ground to raise what we called pasture raised pigs.  We did have to supplement with a feed mixture from the feed store as well.


That brings us to this year.  Our current goal is to continue to grow and raise a larger portion of our own food.  We hatched one batch of our own chicks on Easter and then today we got our chicks from the feed store again.  In a couple more weeks, we will hatch our second batch of chicks from the incubator.  There is a chance that working with these baby chicks are a little addicting!  We also plan to raise pigs again this summer.  We will again be running the pigs on pasture as well as running them in our woods this year.  Our aim is to make our pigs’ time on our farm as enjoyable for them as possible.  If you are interested in buying a half or a whole pig please let us know so that we can plan accordingly.  We are taking deposits of $100 for a whole and $50 for a half that will be applied to your bill in the fall when we take them to the butcher.  This year we are also planning on offering a smaller pork share called our sampler pack.  The sampler pack will include a ham, a pork roast, two packages of 4 pork chops, a package of short ribs and 2 lbs of sausage.  We are still selling eggs and after penciling out feed costs of the feed that we do buy, we decided that we will have to raise our price to $3.00/dozen.  That is still much lower than the price of pasture raised eggs in the grocery store.  We have tossed around the idea of raising some broiler chickens, but for now just plan to butcher the cockerels from the chicks that we raise this year.  Please let us know if there is interest out there in having us raise some pasture raised broilers in the future.
